---
layout: post
title: Flutter
date: 2019-06-19 23:19:45
categories: development android flutter
thumbnail: feather-alt
---

A bit of an update for my project (I really should get into the habit of updating this blog).
I have been making good progress, although dealting  with audio is a bit tougher than I thought
it would be. Android's design for implementing a Service to play music is, to say the last, complex.
Especially with handling communication between Activities and a single service. I did manage to get it working,
however, some odd bugs did spring up every now and then.

I decided to take a break and during my internet surfing I came across React Native and Flutter.
Being able to build cross platform applications in a single codebase? Count me in! I was already
used to React projects, so I wanted to try something new. Plus the Dart programming language looked
really interesting! After an intense 4 hour learning session, I was ready to start building Flutter
apps. I managed to make a scrollable list of 10 items:

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

void main() => runApp(App());

class App extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      title: 'Example App',
      theme: ThemeData(
        primarySwatch: Colors.teal,
      ),
      home: Scaffold(
        appBar: AppBar(title: Text('ListViews')),
        body: ListView.builder(
          itemCount: 10,
          itemBuilder: (context, index) {
            return ListTile(title: Text('Song $i'));
          },
        ),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

In just 24 lines of code I manage to do what would take 4 files in Android:

* Main Activity class
* Adapter class
* Main activity's layout file with a ListView
* List item layout file

This really got me to consider rebuilding my app in Flutter. I was making ok progress
with native Android code, but it was taking a while to work through some of Android's
structures (I'm looking at you Services!). Especially since I was planning an IOS build,
this would be taking a considerable amount of time to finish this app.

So I decided to go ahead with Flutter for the following reasons:

* Faster development time
* IOS support
* Single code base
* `async / await` structure for handling background processes
* Hot reloading!

Flutter is still a relatively new technology, there are some issues with accessing device storage,
permission handling, and playing audio that aren't supported in the core libraries yet. The community
is working on plugins to work with these setbacks in both Android and IOS.

The first problem I've ran into was accessing device storage, there isn't really a plugin to getting 
audio files from the device.

Well, if a plugin doesn't exist yet, might as well get to work on creating one...

\- Jerry
